
Home
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For other uses, see Home (disambiguation) and Homes (disambiguation).
For the front page of the Wikipedia site, see Main Page.

Plans for a detached house showing the social functions for each room
A home or domicile is a dwelling-place used as a permanent or semi-permanent residence for an individual, family, household or several families in a tribe. It is often a house, apartment, or other building, or alternatively a mobile home, houseboat, yurt or any other portable shelter. Homes typically provide areas and facilities for sleeping, preparing food, eating and hygiene. Larger groups may live in a nursing home, children's home, convent or any similar institution. A homestead also includes agricultural land and facilities for domesticated animals. Where more secure dwellings are not available, people may live in the informal and sometimes illegal shacks found in slums and shanty towns. More generally, "home" may be considered to be a geographic area, such as a town, village, suburb, city, or country.

Transitory accommodation in a treatment facility for a few weeks is not normally considered permanent enough to replace a more stable location as 'home'.[citation needed] In 2005, 100 million people worldwide were estimated to be homeless.

Contents  [hide] 
1	History
2	Types
2.1	Buildings
2.2	Portable shelter
2.3	For larger groups
2.4	Informal
3	Occupants
4	Tenure
4.1	Owner-occupancy
4.2	Rental accommodation
4.3	Squatting
5	Homelessness
6	Psychological significance
7	See also
8	Notes
9	References
10	External links
History[edit]
[icon]	This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (November 2013)
Buildings such as huts and longhouses have been used for living since the late Neolithic.[1]

Types[edit]
[icon]	This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (July 2015)
Further information: List of human habitation forms
Buildings[edit]

1910 American homestead
A house is a building that functions as a home for humans [2] ranging from simple dwellings such as rudimentary huts of nomadic tribes to complex, fixed structures of wood, brick, or other materials containing plumbing, ventilation and electrical systems.[3][4] Most conventional modern houses will at least contain a bedroom, bathroom, kitchen or cooking area, and a living room. In traditional agriculture-oriented societies, domestic animals such as chickens or larger livestock (like cattle) may share part of the house with humans. The social unit that lives in a house is known as a household. Most commonly, a household is a family unit of some kind, although households may also be other social groups or individuals. The design and structure of homes is also subject to change as a consequence of globalization, urbanization and other social, economic, demographic, and technological reasons. Various other cultural factors also influence the building style and patterns of domestic space.

A terraced house[a] is a style of medium-density housing where a row of identical or mirror-image houses share side walls, while semi-detached housing consists of pairs of houses built side-by-side or (less commonly) back-to-back,[5] sharing a party wall and with mirrored layouts.

An apartment (in American English) or a flat (in British English) is a self-contained housing unit (a type of residential real estate) that occupies only part of a building. Such a building may be called an apartment building, apartment house (in American English), block of flats, tower block, high-rise or, occasionally mansion block (in British English), especially if it consists of many apartments for rent. In Scotland it is called a block of flats or if it's a traditional sandstone building a tenement, which has a pejorative connotation elsewhere. Apartments may be owned by an owner/occupier by leasehold tenure or rented by tenants (two types of housing tenure).

A homestead consists of a dwelling, often a farm house, together with other buildings and associated land, and facilities for domesticated animals.

Portable shelter[edit]

A houseboat on Lake Union in Seattle, Washington
Mobile home
Houseboat
Yurt
For larger groups[edit]
Children's home
Convent
Informal[edit]

Makeshift homes in Los Angeles
Shacks found in slums and shanty towns
Occupants[edit]
[icon]	This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (July 2015)
Further information: Household and Roommate
A home's occupants may be a single individual, a family, household, or several families in a tribe. Occupants may be part of other groups, such as nursing home residents or children in an orphanage.

Tenure[edit]
[icon]	This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (July 2015)
Main article: Housing tenure
The financial arrangements under which someone has the right to live in a home are, most frequently, tenancy, in which rent is paid by the tenant to a landlord, and owner-occupancy. Mixed forms of tenure are also possible.

Owner-occupancy[edit]
Further information: Owner-occupancy
Rental accommodation[edit]
Further information: Renting
Squatting[edit]
Main article: Squatting
Squatting is an action of occupying an abandoned or unoccupied area of land and/or a building ? usually residential[6] ? that the 'squatter does not own, rent or otherwise have lawful permission to use.

Homelessness[edit]
Main article: homelessness

Homeless people in San'ya district, Tokyo, Japan
Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted in 1948 contains the following text regarding housing and quality of living: "Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services..."[7]

In 2004, the United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, defined a homeless household as "those households without a shelter that would fall within the scope of living quarters. They carry their few possessions with them, sleeping in the streets, in doorways or on piers, or in another space, on a more or less random basis."[8]

In 2009, at the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe Conference of European Statisticians recommended that homeless people are classified in two broad groups (noting that this would not provide a complete definition):[9]

(a) Primary homelessness (or rooflessness). This category includes persons living in the streets without a shelter that would fall within the scope of living quarters.
(b) Secondary homelessness. This category may include persons with no place of usual residence who move frequently between various types of accommodations (including dwellings, shelters and institutions for the homeless or other living quarters). This category includes persons living in private dwellings but reporting Åeno usual addressÅf on their census form.
In 2005, 100 million people worldwide were estimated to be homeless,[10] although some prefer the term 'houseless' or 'unsheltered'.

Psychological significance[edit]
A home is generally a place that is close to the heart of the owner, and can become a prized possession. It has been argued that psychologically "The strongest sense of home commonly coincides geographically with a dwelling. Usually the sense of home attenuates as one moves away from that point, but it does not do so in a fixed or regular way."[11] Since it can be said that humans are generally creatures of habit, the state of a person's home has been known to physiologically influence their behavior, emotions, and overall mental health.[12] People may become homesick when they leave their home over an extended period of time. Places like homes can trigger self-reflection, thoughts about who someone is or used to be or who they might become.[citation needed] These types of reflections also occur in places where there is a collective historical identity, such as Gettysburg or Ground Zero.[13]

Popular sayings include "a man's home is his castle",[14] "there is no place like home", "home sweet home", "to be at home", "home away from home", "make yourself at home", "you can never go home again",[15] "home is where the heart is"[16] and "home is where you hang your hat".[17]

The word home can be used for various types of residential community institutions in which people can live, such as nursing, retirement homes for seniors, foster homes, etc.[citation needed] Short-term accommodation in a treatment facility for several weeks is unlikely to be considered 'home'.

Homes may be lost in ways ranging from the upheavals of natural disasters[18], fraud/theft, arson, or war-related destruction, to the more common voluntary sale, loss for one or more occupants on relationship breakdown, expropriation by government or legislated cause, repossession/foreclosure to pay secured debts, eviction by landlords, disposal by time-limited means ? lease, or absolute gift. Jurisdiction-dependent means of home loss include adverse possession, unpaid property taxation and corruption such as in circumstances of a failed state. Personal insolvency, development or sustaining of mental illness or severe physical incapacity without affordable domestic care commonly lead to a change of home. The underlying character of a home may be debased by structural defects, natural subsidence, neglect or soil contamination. Refugees from homes flee where such extreme forms of quasi-nuisance occur such as harassment and religious persecution, who may seek a sheltered housing refuge or place of asylum respectively.

See also[edit]
Human habitats (Category)
Ancestral home
ARCHIVE Institute
Dwelling
Home automation
Home network
Home improvement
Home maintenance
Homemaker
List of countries by home ownership rate
List of human habitation forms
Model home
Real estate
Share house
United Nations Human Settlements Programme
Urbanization
Big single-family home 2.jpgHome portal Preferences-system.svgHome improvement portal
Notes[edit]
Jump up ^ also known as a terrace house (UK), townhouse (US), row houses or linked houses
References[edit]
Jump up ^ "Skara Brae". Orkneyjar. Retrieved 8 December 2012.
Jump up ^ American Shelter: An Illustrated Encyclopedia of the American Home By Les Walker. Overlook Press, July 1, 1998
Jump up ^ Schoenauer, Norbert (2000). 6,000 Years of Housing (rev. ed.) (New York: W.W. Norton & Company).
Jump up ^ "housing papers" (PDF). clerk.house.gov. Retrieved December 18, 2012.
Jump up ^ https://www.ura.gov.sg/circulars/text/dchbr/pt1landedhousing-dchbr.pdf
Jump up ^ Roberts, Chris (2006), Heavy Words Lightly Thrown: The Reason Behind Rhyme, Thorndike Press, ISBN 0-7862-8517-6
Jump up ^ "Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights". United Nations. 10 December 1948.
Jump up ^ "United Nations Demographic Yearbook review: National reporting of household characteristics, living arrangements and homeless households : Implications for international recommendations" (PDF). United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Statistics Division, Demographic and Social Statistics Branch. 14 April 2004.
Jump up ^ "Enumeration of Homeless People" (PDF). United Nations Economic and Social Council. Economic Commission for Europe Conference of European Statisticians. 18 August 2009.
Jump up ^ "Homelessness around the world". Boston Globe. 14 December 2011.
Jump up ^ Terkenli, T. S. (1995). "Home as a Region". Geographical Review. 85 (3): 324?334. JSTOR 215276.
Jump up ^ Boutruche, Samuel; Bourgeois, Stephanie; Lyamouri-Bajja, Nadine (2008). Raising Young Refugees' Voices in Europe and Beyond. Council of Europe. p. 35. ISBN 9789287163080.
Jump up ^ Burton-Christie, Douglas (2009). "Place-Making as Contemplative Practice". Anglican Theological Reviews. 91 (3): 347?371.
Jump up ^ Malik v Fassenfelt & Others [2013] EWCA Civ 798 (Court of Appeal of England and Wales) His Honour Sir Alan Ward (judge) began the panel's appellate judgment "The idea that an Englishman's home is his castle is firmly embedded in English folklore and it finds its counterpart in the common law of the realm..."
Jump up ^ "Home". idioms.thefreedictionary.com.
Jump up ^ "Home is where the heart is". Retrieved 4 December 2012.
Jump up ^ "Idiom: Home is where you lay your hat". Retrieved 4 December 2012.
Jump up ^ Teves, Hranjski, Oliver, Hrvoje (7 December 2012). "Death toll from Philippine typhoon climbs past 500". USA Today. Retrieved 8 December 2012.
External links[edit]
	Wikivoyage has a travel guide for Returning home.
 The dictionary definition of home at Wiktionary
 Quotations related to Home at Wikiquote
 Media related to Home at Wikimedia Commons
Authority control	
NDL: 00565161
Categories: HomeHuman habitats
Navigation menu
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog inArticleTalkReadEditView historySearch

Search Wikipedia
Go
Main page
Contents
Featured content
Current events
Random article
Donate to Wikipedia
Wikipedia store
Interaction
Help
About Wikipedia
Community portal
Recent changes
Contact page
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Upload file
Special pages
Permanent link
Page information
Wikidata item
Cite this page
Print/export
Create a book
Download as PDF
Printable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Languages
Anglisc
???????
Aymar aru
ÑAÑåÑ|ÑsÑpÑÇÑÉÑ{Ñy
Catala
Eesti
Espanol
Esperanto
?????
Francais
?åÍ
???
??????
Islenska
Italiano
?????
Kurdi
ÑMÑpÑ{ÑuÑtÑÄÑ~ÑÉÑ{Ñy
Nederlands
ì˙ñ{åÍ
Norsk nynorsk
??????
Portugues
Roman?
Suomi
Svenska
ÑSÑpÑÑÑpÑÇÑâÑp/tatarca
????
Ti?ng Vi?t
??
?åÍ
íÜï∂
Edit links
This page was last edited on 4 July 2017, at 23:32.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaR is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaDevelopersCookie statementMobile viewWikimedia Foundation Powered by MediaWiki